# Rest-on-Mrs-douglas-your-jimmy-lives-for-you.


My name is Ifeanyi. 

Growing under the watch of my aunt, Miss Ngozi,  a well known veterinarian and also a pet deathcare provider, she assist families with the euthanasia process in their own homes and with the disposition of their pet’s body once death has occurred. 

On August 17 2002 at the early hours of the morning, I was in my aunt office when I heard a knock on the door, i opened the door to behold the sober and unhappy faces of Mr and mrs Amadi Douglas with their 8 years old Siberian husky who was on the verge of dying from an unknown illness.
Mr Douglas, a versatile businessman in his late thirties and mrs Douglas, a banker,in her early thirties were ushered inside the office. Jimmy the dog had right-sided heart failure, a chronic condition in which the heart muscle or valves doesn’t pump blood efficiently and evenly in the body system. As a result, the fluids back up into the abdomen. (Left-sided heart failure causes the blood to back up in the lungs instead, leading to breathing problems and eventual suffocation.) Mr and mrs Amadi  Douglas had been managing Jimmy's condition with medication, administration of concentrated oxygen, and periodic removal of the fluid from his abdomen. Ultimately, most causes of heart disease in dogs are not reversible conditions. Death is unavoidable, is just a matter of when.
Surprisingly, the couples came to brief my aunt on the possibilities of cryogenically preserving Jimmy's body after death, a process he read about few years ago on "Daily science discoveries" a publishing company that based on documenting science outbreaks all over the globe. They arranged to have jimmys body taken to the Cryonics Institute in lekki, lagos, a place that describes cryonics as “a form of one-way medical time travel.” Cryopreservation is the process where biological tissue, like a body, is cooled to very low temperatures with the intention of stopping chemical processes that might cause damage to the tissue, like decomposition. The bodies (or patients, as they’re referred to in the institutes) are held in a dewar, a tall stainless steel vat. Ultimately, the end objective of cryopreservation is to hold the body in stasis until breakthroughs are made in technology that can reverse or cure the injury or ailment that brought about the death of a particular patient ( humans or animals).
According to my aunt, cryopreservation of tissues isn't a new development and the even Cryogenic liquids were synthesized back in the late 1800s and The dewar was developed back in the 1800s as well. And that Cryopreservation of biological material has included semen, blood, tissues like tumors, eggs, embryos, ovarian tissue, and plant seeds, but as of yet no human has been cryopreserved and revived which definitely was the main reason why Mrs Douglas was skeptical and not in terms of the idea by the husband in carrying out cryopreservation on Jimmy's body but for the love she had for Jimmy, she had no option but to key to the idea. And I immediately reflected on the day Jimmy was hit by a car and she rushed him down to my aunt and it was discovered the Jimmy obtained so many injuries that made Mrs Douglas restless until Jimmy got back to good health, the love, affection and care was out of this planet.
My aunt gently counseled them about the scientific validity of cryonics, making sure that they were aware of the chances and possibilities of Jimmy coming back to life, that, no proof as to the likelihood of success. In which they went on to sign the contract provided by the institute stating that  “cryonic cryopreservation is an unknown, untested process, and that no human being, or any adult vertebrate, has ever been successfully cryonically suspended and revived,” and that “the success of cryopreservation depends on future breakthroughs in science and technology and that the probability of success is completely unknown.” the institute charged 530,000 thousand naira for cryopreservation procedures. 
My aunt aside the need of ensuring the comfort of the pet, she also played a huge part in helping her dear friend and the family find comfort in their moment of grief. My aunt who was in total support of the procedure give her friend an illustration that “Through most of the existence of animal life, if your heart stops, you’re dead,” she says. “But now, of course, there’s plenty of people who have gone into cardiac arrest and been resuscitated. And this give Mrs Douglas relief and hope which can be seen on her facial look at the particular time.
After few days Jimmy's passed away and the body was delivered through local commercial flight from Enugu to Lagos. consequently, Jimmy's body arrived at institute in Lekki and his body cryopreserved in a dewar, in accordance to mr and mrs amadi Douglas directions. And the photos of Jimmys cryopreserved body was sent to them in order to show them that his body was properly preserved and stored in best conditions. 
After many years this remarkable event took place, I have totally forgotten about it and didn't even remember that such a thing took place. I was in the comfort of my home with my little daughter listening to "science discoveries" 102.3FM when I had the case of Jimmy and how a new breakthrough was made in the aspect animal heart treatment and the test was carried out on Jimmy's body and it became extremely successful without any issue. At first, it struck my mind like a grenade because I couldn't believe my ears and at a point I doubted my cognitive abilities. I immediately reach out to my aunt after so many years and broke the massive news to her but she wasn't  moved nor did she show any excitement and I was curious to know why?. She told me that it would have been a wonderful and great testimony if her very good friend Mrs Douglas is still alive to witness what she ever prayed and hoped for. At the moment I felt deeply emotional and I reflected on the emptiness of life and at the same time appreciated science and their breakthrough. 
Rest on Mrs Douglas, your Jimmy lives for you!!!!
